Welcome back wonderful God people in this video we're going to get to play a character made and moving
so we've got a good start with a sort of template a resting place.
Let's actually get something happening when we pressed buttons.
So what do we need to do.
We need to instance a scene based on the character sing.
However that's not going to be enough.
We also need to instance a script based on the character saying if we just insist the scene it will
by default use the same script so we need a second script that inherits off the character script.
We want to create top down movement and we're going to steer with the character always looking where
the mouse is on screen.
And when you say detre movements are the players have the option of either using the mouse and cursor
keys or mouse and ibsa Deep.
So that's nice and simple.
How we get started.
Well first me to do is make a new scene.
But this one's going to be new inherited scene.
We're going to inherit from the character scene.
So open bases which scene my inheriting from.
And this is now a brand new scene.
So if I call this player and say that we still have character players is new seen anything with his
greyed out is inherited case so the current Sprite is the original one.
So I mean go into graphics in two pages into Hit Man 1 And I'm just going to replace that sprite.
The collision ships going to say and that is the scene itself set up.
OK.
So we have the scene.
We don't have the correct script right now.
Player is using character dodgy.
Any changes I make here will change character dodgy deal.
There is no play a script to change.
I need a script that extends character Didi.
Something to detach the script and then attach a new one and put it like place.
It's going to be called player.
However it's going to inherit character and now whereas it would normally say extends kinematic body
to do.
It now says extends and then the path to the character does Judy.
This means that this script has access to all functions and variables within character Judy.
So anything I write in here is on top of character dodgy but it doesn't go the other way round.
Anything I write in here is not X accessed by character but Tweedy unless I tell it to access it specifically
so let's make a function and I'm going to use the process functions so every tick every frame.
What are we doing.
We are going to move and slide now move and slide is a function of kinematic body to day player is a
kinematic want it to be and it's inheriting from kinematic what it Judy.
Note by the way if I change player to a different type.
Let's change it to.
I don't know rigid body a static body a sprite whatever other note I change it to.
I would then not be able to use the script because it's extending McCain mattick what a chiddy script.
OK.
Move in slide take some arguments as you might remember.
If you forget you can look at the documentation inside the engine.
I'm on Windows and pressing control and clicking on it and move and slide.
Where's it gone do to do.
Here it is.
First argument takes is linear velocity.
So that's going to be motion.
So let's define emotionally OK so variable motion and that's a vector too.
Now what I want do is create a function that updates motion and I'm going to call it update motion and
I'm in a past Delta into it.
Okay if I'm going to be updating the value of motion that's a really important thing to do.
So for now that's everything that's going to happen.
All I need to do now is actually create this function so the function update motion and that gets Delta
for further on a map in W say D.
So project settings put that case on these and you are left right up and down so it can add left which
is a key and right to press on the plus press key up.
And down.
So once we're here we can start writing the movement code before we any further.
I'd like to see how much you can remember about this.
So I'd like to challenge you to move the player set up basic movement for the player see what you can
remember.
Don't be afraid to look at the documentation if you get stuck it's quite normal.
And remember that we don't want to prioritize one direction or another.
In other words if I press up and down at the same time the character should not move.
It shouldn't just go up or down because that was first in the queue.
So pause the video give that a shot and when you come back I'll show you my solution.
And welcome back.
Okay so what are we to do.
Well we do a condition if input Dart is action pressed.
Okay.
Now I don't want just breasts because that means I've pressed the button don't track of I'm still holding
it down if it's being pressed what's being pressed.
It's going to be you.
I will stop with up and not.
And then copy this and who.
And let's put a coal on there.
So we're going to move up and do that well motion dot Y.
And remember.
And I'm saying this because I'm forgetting as I say this negative y is up.
Now what I'm going to do is I'm going to limit the speed.
OK.
We have Max speed defined here so I'm going to use clamp so I'm say equals clamp.
And what are we going to clap.
Well the clamp value is motion dot y minus speed.
And I need my minimum value my maximum value.
My minoan value is negative max speed.
And you'll see auto completed whereas in the variable it's inheriting from here it's extending.
Character Judy.
Great.
And what's the maximum.
Zero.
OK.
So now when you move up the screen you cannot go faster than max speed and you cannot go slower than
zero.
And nowadays it's going to take all this and duplicate it.
So let's control be on Windows.
And I'm glad she has this for down and this one for up topes you UI underscore up how lame is that.
It is quite more much more like.
I mean it's big screen so I can see everything.
Great.
And that's just going to be a plus speed.
Zero max speed.
OK.
Well we do is check that works before we do that and I make a brand new scene and I'm going to look
into hoodie give it a Node 2 D is a route I want to call this level one.
So these are the precursor of my number one.
And in that I'm going to instance the player that way I can set this is the default see my try and run
it and I don't have to worry about changing it.
I can change it if I need to but I'm not going to so have characters plays I mean I will change it later
on in a series of videos but not right now.
Let's move the player to the middle screens I can see it.
OK.
Let's save the scene.
Were not saving the characters we are saving it into a brand new folder called all levels.
OK a level one scene.
There it is.
Let's give that a shot.
Yes.
Level 1 is my scene.
OK.
Moving up works and moving down works.
However I let go the key were still moving so we'll have to set stay still thing.
So what we do is I'm going to ELSE motion dot X equals and is a new thing then use Lerp linear interpolation
What does this do.
It moves from this value to this value over the amount of time.
OK.
So that's going to be motion dot y to zero over friction.
That's why we put the friction in here.
So let's give that a shot.
Pressing deep breaths in that now somehow I've set this at Motion X..
That was very clever of me to try that again.
Moving up.
Letting go.
Moving down.
Let it go.
There's a very slight skid there.
Awesome.
All I need to do now is just duplicate all of this and now change these ups and downs and lessen rights
to work with motion and with speed this up a little bit so you can see what I'm doing but not have to
sit there through it.
So.
And welcome back.
A couple of things I've got to make sure I change all of the motion wise in this section to my next.
I've split it.
I should also change these they're elfs just because it will work with an F as you're seeing but it's
better to have one if there's an ellipse unless there's a pressing reason not to.
You might be wondering why.
By the way why don't I just have one else at the end which I could do right I could have motion equals
linae interpret interpellation from motion to zero over friction because friction to be applied on either
axis.
If I stop moving that axis in other words I could still be moving right.
I've stopped moving up so slow down on the up but keep moving the same speed right.
If I were at the bottom then friction won't kick in.
I won't slow down I won't stop until I take my hand off the keyboard.
That's not what I want.
Okay so we should now have four dimensional movement not one dimensional four directional actually eight
directional moving the diagonals.
What I can't do is turn and that's really key.
Now I could set rotation keys right.
I could do left and right rotate and forward and backwards is move forward backward depending which
direction you're facing.
But what I want is I want to look at the mouse cursor to do that.
I'm going to use a look at function.
Put it right here at the top.
Look at what I may look at when I need godso to get the mouse position.
Well that's what I want right.
Get global House position.
Well that is as easy as that.
Quite a Yes I think it might be.
And here we have the beginnings of our game.
We can move.
In all the directions we skid slightly It's not that noticeable and we can look at the mouse.
Awesome and that is everything for this video.
So in this video we've looked at how the instance and use scene and script how to inherit functionality
from existing assets.
And we've had a quick peek at how do you look at.
In this case look at global mouse position.
So great work and I'll see you in the next video.